Fried food.
What's not to love? It's delicious, but
also generally bad for you.
And curiously, the same could be said of
some stocks in Indonesia.
In fact, they're often called
>> deep-fried stocks. While they may look
tasty on the outside,
inside, they're really not that healthy.
>> Unhealthy stocks are just one of the
reasons investors have become wary of
Indonesia's stock market, which until
recently was the biggest in Southeast
Asia.
And concerns are growing over the
country's potential for growth more
broadly.
>> Just 3 to 4 years ago, it was an
investor's darling. There was so much
buzz.
>> It's one of the fastest growing
economies in the world.
>> At $1.5 trillion,
Indonesia's GDP is more than Singapore's
and Thailand's combined.
>> Within Southeast Asia itself, Indonesia
is the largest economy.
>> Indonesia wants to be on the world
stage. It wants to grow faster, and it
has all the ingredients for it.
>> But fear of corruption and policy
missteps, both in markets and
government, is putting this path at
risk.
>> Moody's warns Indonesia's tighter export
controls may spook investors.
>> The Indonesia market here down about 19%
in the past year.
>> Indonesia's currency, the rupiah, has
fallen to all-time lows against the US
dollar in 2026, and analysts doubt it
will rebound anytime soon.
>> It's actually one of the
worst-performers against the dollar in
Asia, and that sends an incredibly
strong signal to investors that things
aren't fantastic.
>> This could have a ripple effect across
one of the fastest-growing regions in
the world.
>> Indonesian assets are often seen as a
barometer for risk appetite in Asia.
>> So, can Indonesia regain investor
confidence, or does this mean a stomach
ache for all of Southeast Asia?
>> Indonesia is the world's fourth most
populous country, more than 280 million
people. That's spread across an
archipelago. If you strung it out from
across the Atlantic Ocean, it would
stretch from New York to London.
>> There's also a higher group of younger
people living in Indonesia, which makes
it an attractive consumer market.
>> Fashion brands from Uniqlo to Zara all
have operations here. It is the world's
biggest producer of Barbie dolls, one of
the biggest producers of Hot Wheels
cars.
>> Start your engines.
>> It's the world's largest palm oil
exporter, nickel producer, and the
world's largest exporter of thermal
coal.
>> Such vast natural resources have meant
Indonesia always had a lot going for it.
>> Indonesia's economy really took off in
the 1970s
and '80s, when the country was a net oil
exporter. It was a member of OPEC. And
during those years, it was growing at
6%, 7%, 8% sometimes.
>> Much of this growth was overseen by
President Suharto. Although his
authoritarian regime raised living
standards and expanded the economy,
it was also marked by widespread
corruption and serious human rights
abuses.
Tensions came to a head in the late
'90s, when the Asian financial crisis
triggered a collapse in regional
currencies and plunged Indonesia into
economic and political turmoil.
>> In Indonesia, the rupiah was
particularly hard hit, and eventually it
led to the near collapse of the banking
system.
>> Suharto was forced to resign in 1998.
>> And it really ushered in a a new age of
democracy and financial controls in
Indonesia. A lot of them are still in
place today, including one of the
biggest one that international investors
watch, which is the 3% cap on budget
deficit spending.
>> Limits on deficit spending presented
Indonesia as a responsible nation.
Foreign investments coming into the
country soared in the 2010s,
surpassing Vietnam, Malaysia, and
Thailand.
This helped fuel the nation's GDP.
With the exception of the Asian
financial crisis and COVID, Indonesia
has had steady growth of around 5% a
year for the past two decades.
By 2014, when Joko Widodo assumed the
presidency, Indonesia was viewed as the
rising star in the region.
>> Joko Widodo started to implement much
more market-friendly policies, allowing
foreign investors to come in through
areas such as infrastructure, trying to
get companies to invest in the country's
commodity market, and that actually
generated a lot of excitement among not
just domestic businesses or foreign
companies, but also to the larger
international market.
>> But prosperity on paper has concealed
the nation's pervasive wealth
disparities, which led to violent
protests in 2025.
>> Public outrage over inequality and
rising living costs.
>> The country's middle class, shown here
in red, has shrunk since 2018, with the
number of vulnerable and poor rising.
Indonesia's current president has
approached these problems from a new
angle.
>> President Prabowo Subianto has deep
beliefs in state-led capitalism.
>> One strategy has been to launch a
sovereign wealth fund like those in
Singapore or the Middle East.
It's named Danan Tara.
>> The idea is to actually manage hundreds
of the country's state-owned
enterprises, which the president has
deemed as, you know, being inefficient.
It's supposed to also get foreign
investments.
>> One of the major concerns with Danan
Tata is simply governance.
>> It's seen as some sort of a piggy bank
to fund uh some of the president's
social policies, and that is creating
some confusion among foreign investors.
>> Prabowo has also announced plans to
tighten control over some of the
country's biggest commodities,
calling for a new state-appointed
company to manage exports of palm oil,
coal, and some nickel products.
>> The intention of this policy is to crack
down on something called under
invoicing, which basically allows you to
shift some of those profits offshore and
avoid taxation in Indonesia.
>> Because it's under Danan Tata, it will
be uh market-friendly. Uh it will be uh
for-profit.
>> It would also boost state revenue needed
to fund Prabowo's costly flagship plans,
including his multi-billion-dollar free
meals program for school children and
pregnant women.
>> Our free meals
strengthens our economy.
>> The program is popular among some
voters, but so far positive effects
across the economy have yet to
materialize. It's also created strain on
the country's budget.
>> Because of this expensive social welfare
programs, the country is actually close
to breaching its 3% legal limit.
>> Not including the pandemic years,
Indonesia's budget deficit in 2025 hit
its highest level in the past two
decades.
>> International investors are worried that
the fiscal state isn't quite what it
used to be.
>> This leads us back to those deep-fried
stocks.
>> It's how people in Indonesia call stocks
that are heavily manipulated.
>> Large amounts of stocks in Indonesia are
owned by the nation's wealthiest
tycoons, and because of this
concentration, the amount of shares
available for public trade, called free
float, is actually quite small in some
stocks, and ownership isn't always
transparent.
>> Most countries set a minimum free float
requirement to make sure markets stay
liquid.
But in Indonesia, that requirement is
much lower than in many other markets.
>> You can see that here. Until recently,
Indonesia had the lowest free float
requirement in the region.
A low free float means it only takes a
relatively small amount of trading
volume to move the price significantly.
>> And because of this, prices can rise
very quickly, but crash very fast.
>> Such market irregularities prompted
MSCI, a global stock market index
provider, to warn that it may reduce
Indonesia's weight in its emerging
markets index.
>> The most shocking element was the
prospect of potentially downgrading
Indonesia's stock market to frontier
market status.
>> In the stock market, you saw a sell off
that you hadn't seen since the 1998
financial crisis, and months later, the
market is still one of the worst
performing in the world.
>> It impacts where they are in the pecking
order of a particular investment
universe.
>> Another clear indicator of stress are
the high yields Indonesia is paying on
its bonds.
>> The higher the bond yield, the more a
certain government needs to pay for
those who invest in the nation's bonds.
In Indonesia's case, it's one of the
highest in Asia.
>> Prabowo's government is trying to limit
the damage and has vowed to address some
of these structural issues.
In March, financial regulators approved
a measure to double the country's
minimum free float requirement.
>> Now the devil's in the details. How long
will it take them to really increase
transparency about who owns what stocks?
And will they go after some of the big
market players that might be guilty of
market manipulations?
>> All of this is happening against the
upheaval of tariffs
and war.
>> Fuel prices in Indonesia are some of the
cheapest in the region. If the president
really wants to keep fuel prices low,
he's going to have to pay for it if oil
prices keep rising.
>> A lot of emerging market currencies have
come under pressure. So, if we see
continued selling of the rupiah, of its
bonds, of its stocks, it shows that
investor interest in some of the real
growth stories in Asia, that's waning.
>> If there's a global loss of trust in
Indonesia, Indonesia becomes more
insular. I don't think anyone in
Indonesian government, Indonesian
business wants to see a more insular
country.